QUICKSTART.md, before:

# 🚀 Quick Start Guide

## Installation (30 seconds)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vikas7516/GitGrind.git
cd GitGrind
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

## First Time Playing?

1. **Read the Git Glossary** — shown automatically on first launch (22 key terms explained simply)
2. **Press `C`** at the main menu to start
3. **Follow the setup** — a quick intro teaches you the basics
4. **Read the teaching slides** — press Enter to advance
5. **Type your answers** — commands are validated instantly
6. **Learn from mistakes** — if you're wrong, you retry until you get it (or skip)

## Tips for Success

### During Levels
- 📖 **Read the concept** at the start of each level
- 🎓 **Pay attention to teaching slides** — they contain examples and pro tips
- 💡 **Use hints** — type `hint` if you're stuck
- 🔥 **Drill zones** — you need 8/10 correct to pass

### Commands You Can Use

| Command | When | Action |
|---------|------|--------|
| `hint` | During exercises | Get contextual help |
| `skip` | After 2 wrong retries | See correct answer + comparison |
| `quit` | Anytime | Return to main menu (progress saved) |

### Main Menu Options

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| **C** | Continue / Start your journey |
| **R** | Replay a cleared stage |
| **N** | Open your **Notebook** — browse all commands you've learned |
| **G** | Open the **Git Glossary** — terminology reference |
| **X** | Reset all progress |
| **Q** | Quit |

### 📖 Git Glossary
- 22 essential Git terms explained in plain English (no jargon)
- Shown automatically on your very first launch
- Re-access anytime from the main menu with **G**

### 📓 Notebook
- Every command you learn during lessons is automatically saved to your Notebook
- Access it anytime from the main menu with **N**
- Commands are grouped by category with syntax, explanations, and pro tips
- Press **S** inside the notebook to export as `git_notebook.txt`

### 🔊 Sound Feedback
- Multi-note melodies play on correct/wrong answers, stage clears, boss intros, and more
- Sound uses `winsound` on Windows with a silent fallback on other platforms
- All sounds are non-blocking — they never freeze the game

### Progress
- Your progress is **auto-saved** after each stage
- You can **replay** levels from the main menu
- A **session summary** appears when you return to the menu (exercises correct/wrong/skipped)

## Troubleshooting

### "Python version too old"
- **Solution**: Upgrade to Python 3.10 or higher
- Check version: `python --version`

### "Module not found" error
- **Solution**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Lost your progress?
- Delete `save_data.json` and start fresh

### Want to start fresh?
- Press `X` at the main menu to reset progress
- Or delete `save_data.json`

## Learning Path Overview

```
Git Glossary (first launch)
    ↓
Setup (1 stage)
    ↓
Basics (Levels 1-6)
    ↓
Exercise Round 1
    ↓
Exercise Round 2 (Retention)
    ↓
Branching (Levels 7-10)
    ↓
Boss Fight 1
    ↓
Exercise Round 3
    ↓
Exercise Round 6 (Retention Sprint I)
    ↓
Remotes (Levels 11-14)
    ↓
Boss Fight 2
    ↓
Exercise Round 4
    ↓
Advanced (Levels 15-21)
    ↓
Exercise Round 5
    ↓
Boss Fight 3
    ↓
Boss Fight 4
    ↓
Exercise Round 7 (Retention Marathon)
    ↓
Boss Fight 5
    ↓
Boss Fight 6 (COMMAND ARENA — GRAND FINAL)
    ↓
🏆 Mastery Rank + Notebook Export!
```

## What to Expect

### Levels (21 total)
- Teaching slides with examples (auto-saved to Notebook)
- 4–6 exercises per level (with retry/skip)
- Quick recap before drill zone
- Drill zone (rapid-fire practice)
- **Takes**: 10–15 minutes per level

### Exercise Rounds (7 total)
- Mixed review of previous content
- 15 exercises, need 12 correct
- **Takes**: 5–10 minutes per round

### Boss Fights (6 total)
- Multi-step real-world scenarios
- Every step must be correct (mercy skip after 5 attempts)
- **Takes**: 10–20 minutes per fight

### Total Game Time
- **Estimated**: 6–8 hours to complete
- **Actual**: Varies by experience level
- Can pause anytime — progress is saved!

## After Completion

✅ You'll understand Git fundamentally, not just memorized commands
✅ You'll have practiced 400+ exercises with real feedback
✅ You'll earn a mastery rank based on your performance
✅ You'll have a notebook of every command with explanations
✅ You'll be ready for real-world Git workflows

---

**Ready? Let's grind! 🎮**

Run: `python main.py`

Commit message:

Added Project Rebuilding Documentation (MVP + Full Version)

QUICKSTART.md, after:

# 🚀 Quick Start Guide

## Installation (30 seconds)

```bash
git clone https://github.com/vikas7516/GitGrind.git
cd GitGrind
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

> **Prefer to build it yourself?**
> Skip the download. Follow the **[Rebuild This Project](Rebuild%20This%20Project/full%20version/introduction.md)** guide to write your own GitGrind from scratch.

## First Time Playing?

1. **Read the Git Glossary** — shown automatically on first launch (22 key terms explained simply)
2. **Press `C`** at the main menu to start
3. **Follow the setup** — a quick intro teaches you the basics
4. **Read the teaching slides** — press Enter to advance
5. **Type your answers** — commands are validated instantly
6. **Learn from mistakes** — if you're wrong, you retry until you get it (or skip)

## Tips for Success

### During Levels
- 📖 **Read the concept** at the start of each level
- 🎓 **Pay attention to teaching slides** — they contain examples and pro tips
- 💡 **Use hints** — type `hint` if you're stuck
- 🔥 **Drill zones** — you need 8/10 correct to pass

### Commands You Can Use

| Command | When | Action |
|---------|------|--------|
| `hint` | During exercises | Get contextual help |
| `skip` | After 2 wrong retries | See correct answer + comparison |
| `quit` | Anytime | Return to main menu (progress saved) |

### Main Menu Options

| Key | Action |
|-----|--------|
| **C** | Continue / Start your journey |
| **R** | Replay a cleared stage |
| **N** | Open your **Notebook** — browse all commands you've learned |
| **G** | Open the **Git Glossary** — terminology reference |
| **X** | Reset all progress |
| **Q** | Quit |

### 📖 Git Glossary
- 22 essential Git terms explained in plain English (no jargon)
- Shown automatically on your very first launch
- Re-access anytime from the main menu with **G**

### 📓 Notebook
- Every command you learn during lessons is automatically saved to your Notebook
- Access it anytime from the main menu with **N**
- Commands are grouped by category with syntax, explanations, and pro tips
- Press **S** inside the notebook to export as `git_notebook.txt`

### 🔊 Sound Feedback
- Multi-note melodies play on correct/wrong answers, stage clears, boss intros, and more
- Sound uses `winsound` on Windows with a silent fallback on other platforms
- All sounds are non-blocking — they never freeze the game

### Progress
- Your progress is **auto-saved** after each stage
- You can **replay** levels from the main menu
- A **session summary** appears when you return to the menu (exercises correct/wrong/skipped)

## Troubleshooting

### "Python version too old"
- **Solution**: Upgrade to Python 3.10 or higher
- Check version: `python --version`

### "Module not found" error
- **Solution**: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

### Lost your progress?
- Delete `save_data.json` and start fresh

### Want to start fresh?
- Press `X` at the main menu to reset progress
- Or delete `save_data.json`

## Learning Path Overview

```
Git Glossary (first launch)
    ↓
Setup (1 stage)
    ↓
Basics (Levels 1-6)
    ↓
Exercise Round 1
    ↓
Exercise Round 2 (Retention)
    ↓
Branching (Levels 7-10)
    ↓
Boss Fight 1
    ↓
Exercise Round 3
    ↓
Exercise Round 6 (Retention Sprint I)
    ↓
Remotes (Levels 11-14)
    ↓
Boss Fight 2
    ↓
Exercise Round 4
    ↓
Advanced (Levels 15-21)
    ↓
Exercise Round 5
    ↓
Boss Fight 3
    ↓
Boss Fight 4
    ↓
Exercise Round 7 (Retention Marathon)
    ↓
Boss Fight 5
    ↓
Boss Fight 6 (COMMAND ARENA — GRAND FINAL)
    ↓
🏆 Mastery Rank + Notebook Export!
```

## What to Expect

### Levels (21 total)
- Teaching slides with examples (auto-saved to Notebook)
- 4–6 exercises per level (with retry/skip)
- Quick recap before drill zone
- Drill zone (rapid-fire practice)
- **Takes**: 10–15 minutes per level

### Exercise Rounds (7 total)
- Mixed review of previous content
- 15 exercises, need 12 correct
- **Takes**: 5–10 minutes per round

### Boss Fights (6 total)
- Multi-step real-world scenarios
- Every step must be correct (mercy skip after 5 attempts)
- **Takes**: 10–20 minutes per fight

### Total Game Time
- **Estimated**: 6–8 hours to complete
- **Actual**: Varies by experience level
- Can pause anytime — progress is saved!

## After Completion

✅ You'll understand Git fundamentally, not just memorized commands
✅ You'll have practiced 400+ exercises with real feedback
✅ You'll earn a mastery rank based on your performance
✅ You'll have a notebook of every command with explanations
✅ You'll be ready for real-world Git workflows

---

**Ready? Let's grind! 🎮**

Run: `python main.py`
